CSCI 2461-70 COMPUTER NETWORKING 3 - LINUX SP18
MATTHEW HARMON


I started my Linux class with a lot of expetations. I have been working most of the time in Windows, and the idea
to learn a new operating system excited me a lot. I started learning English 2 years ago, and I will say that this was 
the most challenging part for me. However, I did my best in this course, and I really enjoy each clase and all the variety of commands that we use in the course labs. I really aprreciate it the knowledge that we shared with my classmates an Matthew. Now, I really love Linux.

Wekkend Summary Final Pack

Week 1

Introduction about the LInux bases, some commands, talking about virtualization of Linux, how the operating system works, sharing linux history and conversation in class.

Week 2

Practicing in the Linux terminal. Simple and ath the same time very powerful. It allows you to intereact with the operating system without the need of graphic interface. Is not wonderful?
Learning some basics commands: ls, cat, cd, cp, mv, touch, rm, mdir, etc.

Week 3

Practicing scripts in the terminal. Bash and SHell script in GNU, default command interpreter in most Linux distributions. We practiced with echo -to call the program sripted, and chmod -to give permission and execute the program in the terminal. Introduction to Github, it is a repository manager to have a good control of the code, amd other components ot the projects.

Week 4

In How Linux Works we talk about partitions, and how using commands -fdisk- to make it from the terminal.
We practice in Github our codes and repository. Also, we had an introduction about how to make our Linux booteable from USB. My script that I shared in my Github repository is about partitions and how it does work.

Week 5

I created my first Ubuntu persistence USB drive. ALso, I practice by my own in home making  another Linux distributions in a persistence ISO USB drive. 

Week 6

Learning the commands shutdown in Linux. Rebooting, turninf off, restaring the system from the command.
I think I had so much fun with this in home practicing and making my operating system sleep and reboting in a time that I wanted. (halt, poweroof, reboot, shutdown, sleep) options (a,k, f, F,c, t) 

Week 7

An Industry Guide to Becoming a Software Engineer - Essay
This article is very helpful and informative for people that want to pursuit the Software Engineering career.
I created a script using the commands of Week 6 to shutdow the system in a specific time.

Week 8

I started watching videos in youtube, vimeo and differents websites. I applied differents scripts to make and run my labs scripts for the midtern presentation. 

Week 9

I created an script for this week that is going to see how many files have a directory. I started with the directory /var, /etc/ and /usr/bin. Everithing runed good.

Week 10

I applied functions to do the same thing as an echo in a script. I tried with a well know script "Hello World" but in a different way.

Week 11

Practicing and learning from other classmates. Functions and Network layers. This class was very intense I apprecite it all the knowledge and hands on that Matthew did in this week.

Week 12

Learning about TCPDUMP. The second essay How does Internet Work and my first Team report: Creating a Web server

Week 13

I tried to learn SAMBA and create a script for users in SAMBA . I need to learn more about it. It is a little confuse for me, but I still practicing this topic. Teamcontributions: searching documentation for the project

Week 14

In our team N-Artica we were working in how to upload a web in the server. I uploaded the Web and images to our user in the sootsplash server. Our team are going to explain the next steps to put information of each server in our Web.

Week 15

COmpiling a project in gcc

I compiled and used the well know script "Hello World" and I changed the original gcc script to run it in our sootoplash server.

Week 16

I applied a script to generate randon password. Using 64 bit characteres. I like the security and everything about passwords in Linux. I still compiling information and tried differents script. This is the last weekend of Linux. I think I am more confident to move on in my career and my goals.

Thanks everyone for the support and specially to Matt for the great job this semester. All the best for all of you!

Chau!




